This repository contains all the input files and data related to the paper "Fast and accurate committor estimation for kinetics simulations"

The following folders contain the code, simulation setup, and models for the three systems (mueller potential, alanine dipeptide, and chignolin) presented in the manuscript.

```
.
├── mueller/
│   ├── overdamped
│   └── underdamped
├── alad/
├── chignolin/             
│   ├── 405_CV
│   └── 4_CV
└── README.md
```

Mueller (Python only)
The mueller potential calculations are completely self‑contained in Python. 
Running ./mueller/overdamped/sub.sh or ./mueller/underdamped/sub.sh executes the entire pipeline automatically.

Alad & Chignolin (NAMD)
NAMD 2.14 – compiled with TCL support.

All necessary CHARMM force field parameters and topology files are provided in ./alad/data0/ or ./chignolin/toppar/

Overall computational workflow:

APC-based committor estimation (APC/): First, generate configurations ($\circ$ points) distributed across the configuration space. 
Subsequently, unbiased trajectory simulations are initiated from each sampled $\circ$ point to produce $n$ $\square$ points. 
Finally, committor values are estimated for all $\square$ points based on a discrete-time Markov chain constructed from analogue prediction. 
Running ./APC/sub.slurm executes the above three steps automatically. 
Note that the 'i=0' parameter in sub.slurm only runs for the 0-th iteration.
To run the next iteration, please manually change it to 'i=1', and so on so forth until the predicted committor values converge. 
Please manually inspect the file ./APC/run_traj_$i/ana_data/aver_diff_c_values.txt to determine whether the predicted committor values have converged.
Please also manually change the relevant paths in the ./APC/sample_data/sample_cell.namd and ./APC/run_traj_data/run_traj.namd files and 'current_dir=CoM/alad/APC' (or 'current_dir=CoM/chignolin/4_CV/APC', 'current_dir=CoM/chignolin/405_CV/APC') in sub.slurm to your own path.

Neural network training (nn/nn.py): At the end of the APC algorithm, a neural network is trained based on these computed committor values to obtain a smooth representation of the committor. 
Before training, please first manually copy the converged committor file 'C_values.dat' generated by APC in the last step to the current folder ./nn.

Milestoning analysis (milestoning/): Performing Milestoning simulations and analysis. 
Here, we generate initial configurations for the reactant and product milestones using conventional restrained sampling and adopt a simpler initialization strategy by directly collecting $\square$ points on a milestone for all other intermediate milestones.
Then, run ./milestoning/data0/pth_to_tcl.py script to convert the parameter file best_model.pth obtained from the neural network training into the tcl format for NAMD simulations (remember to copy it to the current folder first). 
Next, please manually change the relevant paths in the shooting.namd file to your own paths, and modify 'set qthis 0' in the shooting.tcl file to the index of the milestone to be simulated.
For example, if the index of the initial milestone is i, use 'set qthis $i'. 
Finally, run the ./milestoning/data0/new_result.py script to extract the local transition information among milestones from the generated shooting.log file, and run ./milestoning/data0/MFPT.py to calculate the MFPTs between A and B.

